
# 5.

````
touch /dir1/f2
rm -r /dir6
rm -r /dir8

# For Permission
chmod +w /f3

sed -i 's/DevOps/devops/g' /f3
bash -c 'for i in {1..10}; do head -n 1 /f3 >> /f3; done'

cat /f3
sed -i 's/Engineer/engineer/g' /f3
rm /f3
````

# 6.
```
find / -name f3
ls -A1 / | wc -l
tail -n 1 /etc/passwd
```

# 7.
* Login to AWS Management Console:

Log in to your AWS account and access the AWS Management Console.

* Create EC2 Instance:

From the AWS Management Console, navigate to the "EC2" service.
Click the "Launch Instance" button.
Select an Amazon Machine Image (AMI). This forms the basis of the operating system you want to use.
Select the instance type and configuration (CPU, RAM, etc.).
In further steps, configure other settings such as security groups and key pair.
Start the example.

* Create 5 GB EBS Volume:

After creating the EC2 instance, navigate to the “Elastic Block Store” section from the AWS Management Console to create the EBS volume.
Go to the "Volumes" tab and click the "Create Volume" button.
Select "5 GiB" as the size or the size you want.
Select the AZ where your EC2 instance is located as the Availability Zone (AZ).
Create the EBS volume.

* Add EBS Volume to EC2 Instance:

In the EC2 Management Console, select the EC2 instance you created.
Click the "Actions" button and go to "Add/Modify Storage" under "Instance Settings".
To add the EBS volume, click the "Add New Volume" button and select the 5 GB EBS volume you created.
Save and confirm changes.
By following these steps you will add a 5 GB EBS volume to your EC2 instance.

# 8.

You can use these commands to create a new EBS volume.
The device file /dev/xvdf here represents the new EBS volume.
````
sudo mkfs.ext4 /dev/sdb
sudo mkdir /data
# After you create the EBS volume, you can mount it to a directory. First, create the /data directory and then mount the EBS volume in this directory
sudo mount /dev/sdb /data
````

After you successfully mount the EBS volume to /data, you can verify file system usage with the following command
````
df -h
sudo touch /data/f1

````

# 9.

````
sudo su kullanici5
````

````
rm -r /dir1
````
The same goes for deleting other directories.


# 10.
````
sudo su
````

````
userdel kullanici1
userdel kullanici2
userdel kullanici3
userdel kullanici4
userdel kullanici5
````

````
groupdel uygulama
groupdel aws
groupdel veritabani
groupdel devops
````

````
rm -r /home/kullanici1
rm -r /home/kullanici2
rm -r /home/kullanici3
rm -r /home/kullanici4
rm -r /home/kullanici5
````

````
umount /data
````

````
rm -r /data
````


